13.7.2 AFFLICTIONS AND WHAT CURES THEM
Helpful commands for affliction information:

 AFFLICTION LIST
  - See a list of all known afflictions

 AFFLICTION SHOW <affliction>
  - See information about a specific affliction

 WHATCURES <affliction>
  - See what will cure a specific affliction

(See also: HELP CURES, HELP HEAL)

Affliction List
----------------------------------------------------------------

Affliction          Action      Herbal Cure      Alchemical Cure
----------          ------      -----------      ---------------
Ablaze:             Apply (*)   Mending          Mending
Addiction:          Eat         Ginseng          Ferrum
Aeon:               Smoke       Elm              Cinnabar
Agoraphobia:        Eat         Lobelia          Argentum
Anorexia:           Apply       Epidermal        Epidermal
Asthma:             Eat         Kelp             Aurum
Bleeding:           Clot
Blindness:          Apply       Epidermal        Epidermal
Claustrophobia:     Eat         Lobelia          Argentum
Clumsiness:         Eat         Kelp             Aurum
Concussion:         Apply       Restoration      Restoration
Confusion:          Eat         Prickly Ash      Stannum
Crippled limb:      Apply       Mending          Mending
Damaged limb:       Apply       Restoration      Restoration
Darkshade:          Eat         Ginseng          Ferrum
Deadening:          Smoke       Elm              Cinnabar
Deafness:           Apply       Epidermal        Epidermal
Dementia:           Eat         Prickly Ash      Stannum
Disfigurement:      Smoke       Valerian         Realgar
Dissonance:         Eat         Goldenseal       Plumbum
Dizziness:          Eat         Goldenseal       Plumbum
Drowning:           Eat         Pear             Calcite
Entangled:          Writhe
Epilepsy:           Eat         Goldenseal       Plumbum
Fear:               Compose
Freezing:           Apply       Caloric          Caloric
Generosity:         Eat         Bellwort         Cuprum
Hallucinations:     Eat         Prickly Ash      Stannum
Haemophilia:        Eat         Ginseng          Ferrum
Health Leech:       Eat         Kelp             Aurum
Hellsight:          Smoke       Valerian         Realgar
Hypochondria:       Eat         Kelp             Aurum
Hypersomnia:        Eat         Prickly Ash      Stannum
Impatience:         Eat         Goldenseal       Plumbum
Indifference:       Eat         Bellwort         Cuprum
Internal Trauma:    Apply       Restoration      Restoration
Justice:            Eat         Bellwort         Cuprum
Lethargy:           Eat         Ginseng          Ferrum
Loneliness:         Eat         Lobelia          Argentum
Lover's Effect:     Eat         Bellwort         Cuprum
Masochism:          Eat         Lobelia          Argentum
Mana Leech:         Smoke       Valerian         Realgar
Mangled limb:       Apply       Restoration      Restoration
Nausea:             Eat         Ginseng          Ferrum
Pacifism:           Eat         Bellwort         Cuprum
Paralysis:          Eat         Bloodroot        Magnesium
Paranoia:           Eat         Prickly Ash      Stannum
Peace:              Eat         Bellwort         Cuprum
Recklessness:       Eat         Lobelia          Argentum
Scytherus:          Eat         Ginseng          Ferrum
Sensitivity:        Eat         Kelp             Aurum
Shyness:            Eat         Goldenseal       Plumbum
Slickness:          Smoke       Valerian         Realgar 
                    Eat         Bloodroot        Magnesium
Stinky:             Scrub (**)
Stupidity:          Eat         Goldenseal       Plumbum
Stuttering:         Apply       Epidermal        Epidermal
Tempered Humours    Eat         Ginger           Antimony
Transfixed:         Writhe
Vertigo:            Eat         Lobelia          Argentum
Voyria:             Sip         Immunity         Immunity
Weariness:          Eat         Kelp             Aurum
Webbed:             Writhe

(*)  The unfortunate state of being on fire may also be resolved by finding
     an available source of water to swim in.

(**) To scrub yourself clean, you must first go to a water location.


13.7.1 Curatives and What They Cure or Cause.
(See HELP CURE LIST and HELP HEAL)

A listing of herbs, minerals, salves, and elixirs, and what they cure or cause.

Herbs (EAT, or sometimes SMOKE)
-------------------------------
Ash           See Prickly Ash.
Bayberry      Gives blindness.
Bellwort      Cures unnatural tendencies to be excessively altruistic.
Bloodroot     Cures paralysis and slickness.
Cohosh        Gives you insomnia, which prevents you being put to sleep.
Echinacea     Gives third eye.
Elm           See Slippery Elm.
Ginger        Reduces the fluid level in your body when artificially raised.
Ginseng       Cure for impurities of the blood or diseases of the skin.
Goldenseal    Cure for body or mind in disharmony.
Hawthorn      Gives deafness.
Irid Moss     Heals some health and mana.
Kelp          Cure for weakened muscles or lower general fitness.
Kola          Allows you to awaken from sleep immediately, at will.
Lobelia       Cure relating mainly to various types of phobias or pathos.
Moss          See Irid Moss.
Myrrh Gum     Increases your learning lesson speed.
Prickly Ash   When eaten, cures various afflictions relating to your sanity.
Prickly Pear  Allows breathing underwater. Cannot be used pre-emptively.
Sileris       (Applied) Defends against Serpent class fang attacks.
Skullcap      (Eaten) Gives deathsight.
Skullcap      (Smoked) Anti-weapon field that lasts until taken down by others
              or you act aggressively. Causes weapons attacks to rebound.
Slippery Elm  (Smoked) Cures a variety of curses and afflictions.
Valerian      (Smoked) Cures the disfigurement and slickness afflictions.


Minerals (EAT, or sometimes SMOKE)
----------------------------------
Antimony      Reduces the fluid level in your body when artificially raised.
Argentum      Cure relating mainly to various types of phobias or pathos.
Arsenic       Gives blindness.
Aurum         Cure for weakened muscles or lower general fitness.
Azurite       (Eaten) Gives deathsight.
Bisemutum     Increases your learning lesson speed.
Calamine      Gives deafness.
Calcite       Allows breathing underwater. Cannot be used pre-emptively.
Cinnabar      (Smoked) Cures a variety of curses and afflictions.
Cuprum        Cures unnatural tendencies to be excessively altruistic.
Dolomite      Gives third eye.
Ferrum        Cure for impurities of the blood or diseases of the skin.
Gypsum        Gives you insomnia, which prevents you being put to sleep.
Magnesium     Cures paralysis and slickness.
Malachite     (Smoked) Anti-weapon field that lasts until taken down by others
              or you act aggressively. Causes weapons attacks to rebound.
Plumbum       Cure for body or mind in disharmony.
Potash        Heals some health and mana.
Quartz        Allows you to awaken from sleep immediately, at will.
Quicksilver   (Applied) Defends against Serpent class fang attacks.
Realgar       (Smoked) Cures the disfigurement and slickness afflictions.
Stannum       When eaten, cures various afflictions relating to your sanity.


Elixirs (SIP)
-------------
Frost         Increases your resistance to fire-based damage.
Health        Replenishes some of your health.
Immunity      Cures the deadly voyria venom.
Levitation    Will make you levitate above the ground.
Mana          Replenishes some of your mana.
Speed         Increases your ability to dodge some physical attacks.
Venom         Resistance to damage from some poisons.


Salves (APPLY)
--------------
Caloric       Cure for cold-based afflictions and defence for some cold
              attacks.
Epidermal     Cure associated with outer organs, like the eyes and ears.
Mass          Prevents various forms of moving you against your will.
Mending       Cures broken or shrivelled limbs as well as some other things.
Restoration   Heals damage done to body parts. (see HELP BODY PART DAMAGE)


13.7.8 Achaea's server-side curing
Achaea's combat system offers an unprecedented level of depth, providing multiple layers of afflictions and ailments. While this makes it enjoyable, it can also make it difficult to get started in. 

To aide in this endeavour, we provide a server-side system to aide in the curing of these ailments. This should allow all adventurers to partake in player-vs-player combat at all levels.

The following commands are available with the system:

CURING
   - Brings up a list of commands available in the system.

CURING STATUS
   - Shows the status of your curing.

CURING ON|OFF
   - Enables and disables the core of the system.

CURING AFFLICTIONS ON|OFF
   - Enables and disables affliction curing.

CURING DEFENCES ON|OFF
   - Enables or disables defence upkeep.

CURING SIPPING ON|OFF
   - Enables or disables health/mana sipping.

CURING TRANSMUTATION ON|OFF
   - Enables or disables the use of Transmutation cures.

CURING SIPHEALTH|SIPMANA <percent>
   - What percentage of maximum health/mana to sip health/mana at.

CURING MOSSHEALTH|MOSSMANA <percent>
   - What percentage of maximum health/mana to eat moss/potash at.

CURING PRIORITY HEALTH|MANA
   - Prioritise health or mana regeneration.

CURING FOCUS ON|OFF
   - Toggle the use of the FOCUS ability in survival.

CURING FOCUS FIRST|SECOND
   - Toggle whether to use the focus ability before herb cures or after.

CURING TREE ON|OFF [CUSTOM]
   - Toggle the use of the TREE tattoo to cure afflictions.

CURING MOUNT <mount>
   - Set a mount for serverside curing to use.

CURING USEVAULT ON|OFF
   - Toggle usage of the vault ability.

CURING USECLOT ON|OFF
   - Toggle the use of the CLOT ability to mitigate bleeding.

CURING CLOTAT <amount>
   - Configure how much bleeding is needed before the system will CLOT.

CURING TREE SCENARIO
   - Customise when your TREE tattoo will be used.

CURING FALLBACK ON|OFF
   - Allow curing to use alternate cures when you run out of your primary.

CURING KAIDOTRANSMUTE 
   - Permit curing to use transmute automatically (for Kaido havers.)
   - This will not transmute if you know you have recklessness.


Advanced options
----------------
While the default curing priority should be suitable in most cases, we've
provided a way to adjust the order in which you cure afflictions and keep
defences active.

CURING PRIORITY LIST
   - List the affliction cure priority.

CURING PRIORITY <aff1> <priority1> <aff2> <priority 2> 
   - Move an affliction or list of affliction's cure priority.

CURING PRIORITY INSERT <aff> <priority> [all]
   - Inserts a priority.

CURING PRIORITY RESET
   - Reset the cure priority to the default.

For more information on the various afflictions, please be sure to look at
AFFLICTION LIST.

CURING PRIORITY DEFENCE LIST
   - List the defence upkeep priority.

CURING PRIORITY DEFENCE <name> <1-25> 
   - Move an defence's upkeep priority.

CURING PRIORITY DEFENCE <name> RESET  
   - Reset a defence's upkeep priority.

No default priority for defence upkeep is provided. For more information on the various defences, please be sure to look at DEFENCE LIST.

CURINGSETs allow multiple pre-configured curing and defence priority lists.

These can be changed between quickly and easily without having to manually reconfigure the priorities.

CURINGSET NEW <name>
   - Create a new curingset.

CURINGSET LIST
   - List curingsets.

CURINGSET SWITCH <name>
   - Switch to a curingset.

CURINGSET DELETE <name>
   - Delete a curingset.

CURINGSET RENAME <oldname> <newname>
   - Rename a curingset.

CURINGSET EXPAND
   - Purchase an additional curing set. Costs 25 credits and is non-refundable.

CURINGSET CLONE <from>
   - Clone a set into your current setup

Custom conditions for TREE tattoo usage can be setup with the CURING TREE SCENARIO command:

CURING TREE SCENARIO NEW <name>
   - Create a new Tree Scenario

CURING TREE SCENARIO DELETE <name>
   - Delete a custom Tree Scenario

CURING TREE SCENARIO LIST
   - List your custom Tree Scenarios

CURING TREE SCENARIO SHOW <name>
   - Show the details of a custom Tree Scenario

CURING TREE SCENARIO ENABLE <name>
   - Enable a custom Tree Scenario

CURING TREE SCENARIO DISABLE <name>
   - Disable a custom Tree Scenario

CURING TREE SCENARIO AFFLICTIONS <name> <aff1> [aff2] [...]
   - Add afflictions you wish to apply to the Scenario.

CURING TREE SCENARIO NOBAL <name> <SALVE|HERB|SIP|FOCUS|SMOKE>
   - Set TREE tattoo to be used if off a certain curing balance.

CURING TREE SCENARIO AFFCOUNT <scenario> <count>
   - Set TREE tattoo to be used when you have a specific number of afflictions or more.

      Use CURING TREE ON CUSTOM to enable any custom scenarios.

Manual manipulation
-------------------
Situations can change in the blink of an eye, and there may be times when you
wish to force a command to take precedence over any other curing priority. To
do this, simply add it to the queue, and it will be done before any other
scheduled commands.

CURING QUEUE ADD <cure>
   - Add a manual cure into the queue.

CURING QUEUE LIST
   - List what is in your queue.

CURING QUEUE INSERT <1-20> <cure>
   - Insert a manual cure in a specific place.

CURING QUEUE REMOVE <cure>
   - Remove a cure from the queue.

CURING QUEUE RESET
   - Reset the queue.

CURING PREDICT <affliction>
   - Tell the system that you think you have an affliction.

CURING UNPREDICT <affliction>
   - Remove a predicted affliction.

CURING PREDICTIONS
   - List predicted afflictions.

CURING BATCH ON|OFF
   - Attempt to send multiple cures at once where possible.

CURING HEALTHAFFSABOVE <value>
   - Set the health threshold above which you will apply health elixir for curing.

CURING PRIOAFF <affliction>
   - Temporarily prioritise an affliction until said affliction is cured.

CURING PRIOAFF NONE
   - Remove a temporarily prioritised affliction.


About the system and latency
----------------------------
The system is designed to cure your afflictions at a rate that simulates average latency, so the time it would have normally taken for Achaea to send the message to your computer and back to the game. This means:

Most people will see no noticeable difference in curing efficiency using server-side or client-side... it's a matter of preference, much like which internet browser to use.

For people with very high latency (if you are on dial-up internet, for instance), using Achaea's server-side curing may be much faster than using a third-party client.

For someone with extremely low latency (if you are located in Chicago near the IRE servers with fiber-optic service) you might be able to cure yourself a fraction of a second faster with a local system.
Achaea is developed and published by Iron Realms Entertain

CONDITIONAL AFFLICTIONS FOR THE ACHAEAN FORMS

This file pertains to the topic of toxin locks, and explains how you can
hinder the active and passive healing abilities that each of the Achaean
classes have, including Elemental and Dragon form, and which you must
hinder to be able to lock your target successfully.

Initially, know that there is a difference between passive and active
healing capabilities. Active healing requires the use of a balanced
action, like fitness, alleviate and the like. Passive healing requires
an initial action, but then heals independently without further need for
interaction from the person performing the action. Examples of passive
healing are devotion rites and a Baalzadeen's syphon.

The main obstacle on the road to a toxin lock are the active healing
abilities. All passive healing abilities can be disrupted by use of the
toxin Voyria. By design, passive healing cures Voyria before anything
else, which means the opportunity to stack another affliction or two
within the healing rate window, before administering Voyria again.


ALCHEMISTS
-------
Salt in Alchemy.
Hindered by Stupidity

APOSTATES
-------
Syphon in Apostasy. PASSIVE.
Requires the Baalzadeen to be at at least 100 health, and drains health
from the Baalzadeen while it cures its master.

BARDS
-------
Hallejuah in Harmonic. PASSIVE.

DEPTHSWALKERS
-------
Accelerate in Aeonics.
Hindered by recklessness.
The ability can be boosted to cure two afflictions. Boosting this
process is hindered by prone or recklessness.

DRUIDS
-------
Fitness in Metamorphosis. Always cures asthma.
Hindered by weariness.

Might in Metamorphosis.
Hindered by prone.

Grove Cure in Groves.
Hindered by nothing.

Panacea in Groves. PASSIVE.

INFERNALS
-------
Fitness in Chivalry. Cures asthma.
Hindered by weariness.
 
JESTERS
-------
Fool in Tarot.
Hindered by paralysis or prone.

Sun in Tarot.
PASSIVE.

MAGI
-------
Bloodboil in Elementalism.
Hindered by Haemophilia or broken arms (both must be broken).

Harmony in Crystalism. PASSIVE.

MONKS
-------
Fitness.
Hindered by weariness.

OCCULTISTS
-------
See "Jesters" above.

PALADINS
-------
Fitness in Chivalry.
Hindered by weariness.

Healing in Devotion.
PASSIVE.

PARIAH
-------
Leech. PASSIVE.
Can be cast on someone else other than the target.

PRIESTS
-------
Healing in Devotion. PASSIVE

Angel Care through Guardian Angels. PASSIVE (compare Apostate Syphon).
NOTE: These two passives do not stack, Angel Care takes priority and
cures slightly faster.

PSION
-------
Expunge in Psionics. Prioritizes curing impatience.
Hindered by confusion.

RUNEWARDEN
-------
Fitness in Chivalry.
Hindered by weariness

Dagaz in Runelore. PASSIVE.

SENTINELS
-------
Fitness in Metamorphosis. Cures asthma.
Hindered by weariness.

Might in Metamorphosis. Hindered by prone.

SERPENTS
-------
Shrugging in Venoms. Hindered by weariness.

SHAMANS
-------
Daina in Spiritlore. Hindered by selarnia.

SYLVANS
-------
Grove Cure in Groves.

Panacea in Groves. PASSIVE.
Note: Panacea procs faster for those in Viridian form.

ELEMENTAL LADIES/ELEMENTAL LORDS
-------
Air: Susurration. PASSIVE.
Fire: Slough. Hindered by prone.
Water: Purify. Hindered by weariness.
Earth: Eruption. Hindered by weariness.

DRAGONS
-------
Heal in Dragoncraft. Hindered by weariness and recklessness
simultaneously.

Softlock

Asthma - prevents smoking pipes, cured by eating Aurum/Kelp
Anorexia - prevents eating herbs, cured by applying Epidermal/Focusing
Slickness - prevents applying salves, cured by eating
Magnesium/Bloodroot or smoking Realgar/Valerian



Venomlock

Paralysis - prevents movement and touching their Tree tattoo, cured by
eating Magnesium/Bloodroot
Asthma - prevents smoking pipes, cured by eating Aurum/Kelp
Anorexia - prevents eating herbs, cured by applying Epidermal/Focusing
Slickness - prevents applying salves, cured by eating
Magnesium/Bloodroot or smoking Realgar/Valerian



Truelock/Hardlock

Paralysis - prevents Tree tattoo, cured by eating Magnesium/Bloodroot
Asthma - prevents smoking pipes, cured by eating Aurum/Kelp
Anorexia - prevents eating herbs, cured by applying Epidermal/Focusing
Slickness - prevents applying salves, cured by eating
Magnesium/Bloodroot or smoking Realgar/Valerian
Impatience - prevents using Focus, cured by eating Plumbum/Goldenseal

Also includes various other afflictions, such as Weariness, Stupidity,
Recklessness, etc., which prevent class-specific active and passive
cures



Focuslock

Paralysis - prevents Tree tattoo, cured by eating Magnesium/Bloodroot
Asthma - prevents smoking pipes, cured by eating Aurum/Kelp
Anorexia - prevents eating herbs, cured by applying Epidermal/Focusing
Slickness - prevents applying salves, cured by eating
Magnesium/Bloodroot or smoking Realgar/Valerian
In lieu of Impatience, the user afflicts multiple mental afflictions in
the hopes that when the opponent uses Focus it cures something other
than anorexia



Riftlock

Two arm breaks - prevents out-rifting herbs, cured by apply mending to
arms
Slickness - prevents applying salves, cured by Magnesium/Bloodroot or
smoking Realgar/ Valerian
Asthma - prevents smoking pipes, cured by eating Aurum/Kelp
Addiction (Vardrax) can help with a Riftlock, as it will force your
opponent to eat everything already in their hands when their arms are
broken



Salvelock

Two arm breaks, but at level 2 or higher - prevents out-rifting herbs,
cured by apply mending to arms, and level 2 breaks will mean they cannot
use Restore to heal their limbs.
Slickness - prevents applying salves, cured by Magnesium/Bloodroot or
smoking Realgar/Valerian
Asthma - prevents smoking pipes, cured by eating Aurum/Kelp
Addiction (Vardrax) can help with a Riftlock, as it will force your
opponent to eat whatever is already in their hands when their arms are
broken



Sleeplock

Sleep/Delphinium afflicted at least three times in very rapid
succession. The first will strip the Insomnia affliction, which prevents
falling asleep. The second strips the Gypsum/Kola defence, which allows
a person to wake instantly. The third puts the opponent to sleep, which
would then take long enough to wake from, that you can keep afflicting
Sleep/Delphinium, or continue with other locking afflictions.



Aeonlock

Aeon - allows only one action at a time on a lengthy balance.
Asthma - prevents curing Aeon by smoking Cinnabar/Elm
Further Aurum based afflictions to ensure Asthma remains stuck.

Active cures - These require balance or equilibrium to use, and expends
that balance or equilibrium in most cases.

Alchemists have 'Salt' which is blocked by Stupidity. It looks like
this:
- [ Rhalan sketches out a symbol in the air with his finger in the shape
of a bisected circle. ]

Blademasters have 'Alleviate' which is blocked by Paralysis, and
'Phoenix' which is stopped by prone and cures all afflictions.
Allieviate:
- [ As he massages key pressure points, a look of relief comes over
Mizik's face as his ailments ease. ]
Phoenix:
- [ Throwing back his head, Davok shouts out in defiance as blazing
flames consume his for a single, glorious instant before dying away. ]

Depthswalkers have 'Accelerate' which is blocked by Recklessness, it
looks like:
 - [ A look of relief comes over Xarthus as he grows less pale. ]
If you see them grow older, they've cured two afflictions (can't be done
prone).

Druid and Sentinels both have 'Might', stopped by Prone and looks like
this:
 - [ Finnegan lets out a mighty roar. ]

Dragons have 'Dragonheal' which cures three (1 if prone) and is blocked
by Weariness & Recklessness:
- [ Lii lets out a great keening, casting the impurities from her form.
]

Magi have 'Bloodboil' which is stopped by the Haemophilia affliciton,
and will look like:
 - [ Perspiration suddenly breaks out on Aegoth's forehead. ]

Occultists and Jester both have the 'Fool' tarot which cures three
afflictions, can be used on others, and looks like:
- [ Grandue presses a tarot to his forehead, producing a wan smile. ]
- [ Grandue presses a tarot to Dunn's forehead, producing a wan smile. ]

Psions have 'Expunge' which prioritises Impatience, and is blocked by
Confusion:
- [ A slight tightening of the eyes is the only sign Ulvin makes that he
has made a great effort of will. ]
Will cure mentals if they do not have Impatience.

Serpents have 'Shrugging' which is blocked by Weariness, and will look
as follows:
 - [ Cooper hunches his shoulders and lets out a soft hiss. ]

Shamans have 'Purification' (Daina) which is blocked by Selarnia:
 - [ A pale mist begins to rise from the skin of Makenna. ]

Blademasters, Knights, Monks and Metamorphs all have 'Fitness' which is
blocked by Weariness:
 - [ Eoka draws a deep, measured breath. ]
 This ONLY cures Asthma!

-----

Lastly we have 'passive' healing effects which will cure an affliction
once every approximately 10 seconds. If the owner of the effect is
afflicted by Voyria, then that will get cured first above everything
else. Knowing this is paramount to truly locking targets that have
these! Below are a bunch of rough scribbles that detail what the effects
look like.

Jester/Occultist (Sun Tarot)
 - [ The globe of light illuminates Tikal with its brilliance. ]

Bard (Hallelujah)
- [ A song can be heard on the edge of hearing as the air distorts about
Proficy. ]

Runewarden (Dagaz)
- [ A rune like a rising sun upon the ground flares, bathing Dunn with
healing magic. ]

Pariah (Leech)
- [ Something pulses from within the chest of Montifarious, and he seems
more vital. ]

Apostate (Syphon)
 - [ A demonic crimson glow emanates from Serin. ]

Magi Harmony (Vibration)
 - [ A soft chiming emanates from Aegoth. ]

Priest/Paladin (Rite of Healing)
 - [ A gentle glow surrounds Alyzar. ]

Air Lord (Sussuration)
- [ The tempestuous form of Racnole is cleansed by a purifying breeze. ]

Priest (Angel Care)
- [ The guardian angel of Atalkez shimmers and he gives a sigh of
relief. ]

Sylvan/Druid (Panacea)
 - [ Farrah is surrounded in a cool, refreshing mist.]


WHATCURES Output
The affliction 'hypochondria' is cured by: Eat Lobelia / Eat Argentum.

All defences
------------------------------------------------
Accursedresolve
Acrobatics
Affinity
Agithtailegend
Aiming
Airpocket
Alertness
Alligatorlegend
Amamaalierlegend
Antiforce
Arcaneshield
Arctar
Aria
Arrowcatching
Astralform
Astronomy
Auroragrace
Avoid
Balancing
Barkskin
Basking
Battlesong
Bedevilaura
Belltattoo
Blackboarlegend
Blackwind
Bladefire
Blademastery
Blessingofthegods
Blindness
Blocking
Bloodquell
Bloodscent
Bloodshield
Blunder
Blur
Boartattoo
Bodyaugment
Bodyblock
Boostedregeneration
Brains
Bulk
Chameleon
Chargeshield
Circling
Circulate
Clinging
Cloak
Cohesion
Coldresist
Consciousness
Constitution
Curseward
Dawnhand
Deafness
Deathaura
Deathsight
Deflect
[Type MORE if you wish to continue reading. (21% shown)]
18:16:12:644 [10388] [99] |(639170|93%)|[]  
(((((((((((((((((((( BALANCE: 1.629 ))))))))))))))))))))
You slip behind a mummified troll guardian and garrote him with your whip.
Damage dealt: 855 (asphyxiation).
A mummified troll guardian throws a punch at you with his massive arm, smashing into your body.
Health lost: 746 (physical blunt).
18:16:14:114 [9642] [99] |(639170|89%)|[]  
[File continued via MORE]
Deliverance
Demonarmour
Demonfury
Density
Devilmark
Devour
Diamondskin
Disassociate
Disperse
Distortedaura
Dodging
Dragonarmour
Dragonbreath
Dreyvoslegend
Drunkensailor
Durability
Dustform
Eaglelegend
Earthshield
Eavesdropping
Electricresist
Elementalpurity
Elusiveness
Embattled
Encircling
Enduranceblessing
Endure
Enhancedform
Epitomise
Evadeblock
Evasion
Extispicy
Extrusion
Eyes
Faith
Fangbarrier
Fervour
Firefly
Fireresist
Fireshroud
Firstaid
Flailingstaff
Fleetness
Freedom
Frenzied
Frostshield
Fury
Ghost
Golgothagrace
Greased
Gripping
Grookbubble
Groundwatch
Guidedstrike
Guisecurse
Harmony
Haste
Hawkstep
Heads
Heartsfury
[Type MORE if you wish to continue reading. (42% shown)]
18:16:14:562 [9642] [99] |(639170|89%)|[]  
[File continued via MORE]
Heldbreath
Heresy
Hiding
Hyperfocus
Hypersense
Hypersight
Immunity
Incandescence
Indomitability
Insomnia
Inspiration
Insufflate
Insulation
Ironform
Ironwill
Joints
Kaiboost
Kaitrance
Karthweatherweaving
Karthwisdom
Knightsvigil
Kola
Laelegend
Lament
Lay
Leechlogograph
Levitating
Lifebond
Lifegiver
Lifesteal
Lifevision
Lipreading
Magicresist
Maticlegend
Megalithtattoo
Mentalclarity
Mercury
Metawake
Mindcloak
Mindnet
Mindseye
Mindtelesense
Mistral
Moontattoo
Morph
Mosstattoo
Mouths
Nicatorlegend
Nightsight
Numbness
Oxtattoo
Pacing
Painshift
Panacea
Phased
Pinchblock
Placement
Poisonresist
Potentiate
Preachblessing
[Type MORE if you wish to continue reading. (63% shown)]
18:16:14:753 [9642] [99] |(639170|89%)|[]  
[File continued via MORE]
Precision
Prismatic
Projectiles
Promosurcoat
Psibreakthrough
Psicomprehend
Psitranscend
Psivanish
Putrefaction
Rebounding
Reflections
Reflexes
Regeneration
Resistance
Retaliation
Retribution
Ruin
Rupturesight
Satiation
Scales
Scholasticism
Scouting
Seasonelegend
Secondsight
Secondskin
Seleucarianinspiration
Seleucarianmight
Selfishness
Setweapon
Shadowveil
Shield
Shieldlogograph
Shikudoform
Shinbinding
Shinclarity
Shinperfection
Shinrejoinder
Shintrance
Shipwarning
Shroud
Skysight
Skywatch
Slippery
Softfocusing
Songbird
Soulbleedarmour
Soulbleedcling
Soulcage
Speed
Spinning
Spinningstaff
Spiritbonded
Spiritwalk
Splitmind
Standingfirm
Starburst
Stealth
Stonefist
Stoneskin
Strata
[Type MORE if you wish to continue reading. (85% shown)]
18:16:14:844 [9642] [99] |(639170|89%)|[]  
(((((((((((((((((((( BALANCE: 1.669 ))))))))))))))))))))
You slip behind a mummified troll guardian and garrote him with your whip.
A mummified troll guardian's form begins to atrophy as your attack kindles ethereal mist to consign him to only memory.
Damage dealt: 3420 (asphyxiation).
[File continued via MORE]
Sulphur
Susurrating
Swiftcurse
Sympathy
Tekurastance
Telesense
Temperance
Tempest
Tempo
Tentacles
Thermalshield
Thirdeye
Tin
Tongues
Toughness
Treewatch
Tremorsense
Truestare
Tumors
Tune
Twoartsstance
Unbowed
Undeathvisage
Unnamablepresence
Vengeance
Venomsacks
Vigilance
Vigour
Viridian
Vitality
Ward
Waterwalking
Wavedance
Weakvigour
Weathering
Weaving
Wildgrowth
Willpowerblessing
Wisdomofages
Wolflegend
Xporb

Curing Priority List
 
Your affliction curing priorities for the priority set normal:
1:  brokenrightarm, brokenleftarm, latched, icebound
2:  brokenrightleg, brokenleftleg, aeon, entangled, peace, scytherus, bound, daeggerimpale, impaled, sleeping, 
transfixation, voyria, webbed, heartseed, prone, disrupted, hypothermia, calcifiedskull, calcifiedtorso, 
unweavingbody(5), unweavingbody(4), unweavingbody(3), unweavingmind(3), unweavingmind(5), unweavingmind(4)
3:  paralysis, pacified, slickness, grievouswounds
4:  anorexia, impatience, burning(5), timeloop, unweavingspirit, mindravaged, sandfever
5:  itching, fear, dazed, hypochondria, crushedthroat, kkractlebrand, flushings, mycalium, pyre(3), frostbite
6:  burning(4), retribution, shadowmadness, depression, pyramides, crescendo
7:  asthma, weariness, clumsiness, sensitivity, parasite, tonguetied, rebbies
8:  damagedhead, damagedrightleg, damagedleftleg, mangledhead, mangledrightleg, mangledleftleg, confusion, epilepsy, 
nausea, recklessness, masochism, stupidity, internalbleeding, guilt, skullfractures, fulminated, earworm
9:  dizziness, hallucinations, healthleech, addiction, vertigo, hypersomnia, burning(3), burning(2), burning, darkshade,
crackedribs, horror(3), horror(5), horror(4), horror(2), pyre(2), pyre
10: dementia, paranoia, torntendons, horror
11: damagedleftarm, haemophilia, lethargy, whisperingmadness, spiritburn, tenderskin, wristfractures
12: concussion, hellsight, shyness, diminished
13: damagedrightarm, manaleech
14: mangledrightarm, mangledleftarm, lovers, deadening, dissonance, temperedmelancholic, temperedcholeric, 
temperedsanguine, temperedphlegmatic
15: shivering, frozen, disloyalty
16: justice, generosity, agoraphobia, loneliness, claustrophobia, scalded, tension
17: mildtrauma, serioustrauma
18:
19: slashedthroat, laceratedthroat, stuttering
20: selarnia
21:
22:
23:
24: stridulating
25: indifference, pressure, unweavingbody(2), unweavingbody, unweavingmind(2), unweavingmind, fratricide
26: blindness, deafness, insomnia
Affs with priority 26 are ignored.

CURING PRIORITY DEFENCE LIST OUTPUT
Your defence priorities for curing set normal:
insomnia       : 25
nightsight     : 25
ghost          : 25
lipreading     : 25
boartattoo     : 25
grookbubble    : 25
density        : 25
blindness      : 25
lifevision     : 25
speed          : 25
coldresist     : 25
cloak          : 25
electricresist : 25
weaving        : 25
mindseye       : 25
temperance     : 25
groundwatch    : 25
insulation     : 25
fireresist     : 25
scales         : 25
thirdeye       : 25
kola           : 25
moontattoo     : 25
deafness       : 25
fangbarrier    : 25
poisonresist   : 25
magicresist    : 25

CURINGSET LIST
Your current curing sets
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
normal (current)
slowcuring
infernal
waterlord
general
depthswalker
sentinel
occultist
alchemist
apostate
bashing
knights
paladin
serpent
pariah
druid
shikudo
runewarden
priest
unnamable
blademaster
You are using a total of 21 of your allowed 22 curing sets.

Curing Status:
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Enabled:                   Yes
Reporting commands:        Yes

Sipping:                   Yes
Affliction Curing:         Yes
Defence Upkeep:            Yes

Curing Method:             Transmutation

Fallback Curing:           Yes

Custom Curing Priority:    Yes
Custom Defence Priority:   Yes
Health/Mana Priority:      Health
Sip health at:             80%
Sip mana at:               75%
Eat moss below health:     70%
Eat moss below mana:       70%
Use focus:                 Yes
Focus over herbs:          Yes
Use tree:                  Yes
Use clot:                  Yes
Clot at:                   100 bleeding
Clot to:                   0 bleeding
Use insomnia:              Yes
Will cure fractures above: 70% health
Will use mana above:       45% mana
Will clot health until:    20% health
Batch actions:             Yes
Use Kaido Transmute:       No
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

13.7.1 Curatives and What They Cure or Cause.

       PREV |                              AFFLICTIONS AND WHAT | NEXT
       13.7 | HEALING AND CURING                     CURES THEM | 13.7.2

(See HELP CURE LIST and HELP HEAL)

A listing of herbs, minerals, salves, and elixirs, and what they cure or cause.

Herbs (EAT, or sometimes SMOKE)
-------------------------------
Ash           See Prickly Ash.
Bayberry      Gives blindness.
Bellwort      Cures unnatural tendencies to be excessively altruistic.
Bloodroot     Cures paralysis and slickness.
Cohosh        Gives you insomnia, which prevents you being put to sleep.
Echinacea     Gives third eye.
Elm           See Slippery Elm.
Ginger        Reduces the fluid level in your body when artificially raised.
Ginseng       Cure for impurities of the blood or diseases of the skin.
Goldenseal    Cure for body or mind in disharmony.
Hawthorn      Gives deafness.
Irid Moss     Heals some health and mana.
Kelp          Cure for weakened muscles or lower general fitness.
Kola          Allows you to awaken from sleep immediately, at will.
Lobelia       Cure relating mainly to various types of phobias or pathos.
Moss          See Irid Moss.
Myrrh Gum     Increases your learning lesson speed.
Prickly Ash   When eaten, cures various afflictions relating to your sanity.
Prickly Pear  Allows breathing underwater. Cannot be used pre-emptively.
Sileris       (Applied) Defends against Serpent class fang attacks.
Skullcap      (Eaten) Gives deathsight.
Skullcap      (Smoked) Anti-weapon field that lasts until taken down by others
              or you act aggressively. Causes weapons attacks to rebound.
Slippery Elm  (Smoked) Cures a variety of curses and afflictions.
Valerian      (Smoked) Cures the disfigurement and slickness afflictions.


Minerals (EAT, or sometimes SMOKE)
----------------------------------
Antimony      Reduces the fluid level in your body when artificially raised.
Argentum      Cure relating mainly to various types of phobias or pathos.
Arsenic       Gives blindness.
Aurum         Cure for weakened muscles or lower general fitness.
Azurite       (Eaten) Gives deathsight.
Bisemutum     Increases your learning lesson speed.
Calamine      Gives deafness.
Calcite       Allows breathing underwater. Cannot be used pre-emptively.
Cinnabar      (Smoked) Cures a variety of curses and afflictions.
Cuprum        Cures unnatural tendencies to be excessively altruistic.
Dolomite      Gives third eye.
Ferrum        Cure for impurities of the blood or diseases of the skin.
Gypsum        Gives you insomnia, which prevents you being put to sleep.
Magnesium     Cures paralysis and slickness.
Malachite     (Smoked) Anti-weapon field that lasts until taken down by others
              or you act aggressively. Causes weapons attacks to rebound.
Plumbum       Cure for body or mind in disharmony.
Potash        Heals some health and mana.
Quartz        Allows you to awaken from sleep immediately, at will.
Quicksilver   (Applied) Defends against Serpent class fang attacks.
Realgar       (Smoked) Cures the disfigurement and slickness afflictions.
Stannum       When eaten, cures various afflictions relating to your sanity.


Elixirs (SIP)
-------------
Frost         Increases your resistance to fire-based damage.
Health        Replenishes some of your health.
Immunity      Cures the deadly voyria venom.
Levitation    Will make you levitate above the ground.
Mana          Replenishes some of your mana.
Speed         Increases your ability to dodge some physical attacks.
Venom         Resistance to damage from some poisons.


Salves (APPLY)
--------------
Caloric       Cure for cold-based afflictions and defence for some cold
              attacks.
Epidermal     Cure associated with outer organs, like the eyes and ears.
Mass          Prevents various forms of moving you against your will.
Mending       Cures broken or shrivelled limbs as well as some other things.
Restoration   Heals damage done to body parts. (see HELP BODY PART DAMAGE)

13.7 HEALING AND CURING

       PREV |                           Curatives and What They | NEXT
       13.6 | SAFE ROOMS                         Cure or Cause. | 13.7.1

(For the Priestly skill: HELP HEALING)
(For Achaea's in-built healing system: HELP CURINGSYSTEM)

Healing in Achaea may be accomplished in a number of ways, dependent upon your
resources and what it is you wish to heal or cure.


Sleeping and Meditating
-----------------------
Healing of health and endurance may be accomplished by sleeping, while mana and
willpower may be healed via meditation. SLEEP will put you to sleep, WAKE will
wake you up, MEDITATE will cause you to meditate and any command will cause you
to cease meditating. These are the most basic methods of healing, but they are
not really sufficient for an experienced adventurer, as they are slow and
require that you do not do anything else while performing them.

The other ways of healing are legion. They include abilities in various skills,
salves, elixirs, plants, and smoking. Nothing need be said here about the
abilities, as suitable help may be found on those within the skills. However,
the other methods need some explanation.


Elixirs
-------
Elixirs are fluids that may restore health and mana, cure afflictions, or set
up various defences. They come in the various types of vials found throughout
the land, and when full, can be used many times before running out.

You may refer to elixirs by the vial they are in. For example, if you were
holding mahogany vial111, you would DRINK 111. Or, as is generally
more convenient, you may DRINK <fluid name> to drink from the first vial in
your inventory containing that type of fluid. For example: DRINK HEALTH.

You may purchase elixirs from marketplaces around Achaea. Elixirs may also be obtained from anyone with the Remedies 
tradeskill (TRADEWHO REMEDIES), or
from the helpful denizen Seasone (see HELP SEASONE).

To determine the contents of a vial, use the PROBE command: PROBE <vial #>.
(Or the shortcut for PROBE: P <vial #>.) There is also an ability called
ELIXLIST in the Vision skill, which will list the contents of every single vial
you are holding, all at once.


Salves
------
Like elixirs, salves are also fluids that are stored in vials, though they are
thicker and are able to be spread on your body.

To use a salve APPLY <vial# or salve name>. For example, you can type
APPLY MENDING and, as long as you have a vial of mending salve in your
inventory, this will apply mending salve to a part of your body that requires
it, if any.

Mending and restoration salves may be applied more specifically to the head,
arms, legs, or body, with the following syntax: APPLY <vial# or salve name> [to
<body part>]. For instance, a salve of mending would cure a broken arm if
applied to your arm, and a broken leg if applied to your legs. So if you have
more than one part of your body that requires mending salve and you wish to
heal them in a particular order, you can target the body part by typing APPLY
MENDING TO ARMS, for example.

Salves may be obtained from various shops all across Achaea, from anyone with the Remedies tradeskill (TRADEWHO 
REMEDIES), or directly from the helpful denizen Seasone (see HELP SEASONE).


Plants and Minerals
-------------------
Plants and minerals, in this context, are usually things that you eat. (Some
may be smoked. See the next section.) Eating plants and minerals generally
cures afflictions, or sets up defences for you. You may find these for sale in
marketplaces around Achaea, or you may contact any harvester or synthesiser. (TRADEWHO HARVESTING|SYNTHESIS])

Sileris berries and quicksilver droplets are exceptions. Instead of eating
them, you may apply them to your body like a salve. This provides a coating of
protection against bites from adventurers of the Serpent class. They are able
to flay the coating off you, however, so it does not make you invulnerable.


Smoking
-------
Some defences, such as an anti-weapon field (created by smoking the skullcap
plant), and some cures are effected by smoking plants. To do this, you simply
find yourself a nice pipe, PUT <whatever> IN PIPE, LIGHT PIPE (you must have a
source of fire, such as a tinderbox in your inventory), and then SMOKE PIPE. A
lit pipe will eventually go out if you don't smoke it now and then, but you can
simply relight it.


You will find a list of elixirs, salves, healing plants, minerals, and more in
HELP HEALINGLIST and HELP CURELIST.

(For Achaea's in-built healing system: HELP CURING SYSTEM)

13.9 BODY PART DAMAGE

       PREV | Adventurer vs. Denizen                            | NEXT
       13.8 | Combat                        The TARGET command. | 13.9.1

There are six body parts for the purposes of damage and combat in Achaea:
Head
Torso/Body
Left Arm
Right Arm
Left Leg
Right Leg

Each of these body parts is able to take individual damage, and generally
attacks will tell you which body part they are attacking, if any. If no body
part is shown in an attack, then you are just taking general damage.

Attacks vs. body parts do both general damage against your health, and damage
vs. that body part. However, generally speaking, the damage to your health
done by an attack vs. a body part will be less than if it wasn't targetted to
a body part.

Now, each body part can be at one of three states:

State 0 means that your bodypart is either fully healed, or has taken only
minor damage.

State 1 means that your bodypart has sustained some damage but is still
functional.

State 2 means that your bodypart has been seriously mutilated.


Below is a chart listing the effects of being at State 1 and State 2.

Bodypart        State 1              State 2
--------        -------              -------
Head            Stupidity            Concussion
Body            Minor bleeding       Serious bleeding
Limbs           Limb breaks          Limb is mutilated and broken and cannot
                                     be healed without first applying a
                                     restoration salve to it.


Some have been confused in the past by the difference between State 1 and
State 2 damage on a limb, and a limb being broken. It should be emphasized
that they are _not_ the same thing. To better understand how this works,
imagine that when a limb has been damaged, as opposed to broken, the ability
of that limb to heal has been affected, so a simple mending salve will not
heal it without first applying a restoration salve.

In order to deal out body part damage, which is possible with weapons and with
some abilities, you must first obtain the TARGETTING ability in the Weaponry
skill.

Furthermore, if you have the PARRYING ability in Weaponry, you will, if you
have a weapon capable of parrying wielded (Probe it to find out), be able to
parry attacks to a body part, thus taking no damage.

Diagnose (Survival)  ABADMIN ID: 1380         Known: Yes
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Syntax:            DIAGNOSE/DIAG [ME]
Works on/against:  Self
Cooldown:          1.00 seconds of equilibrium
Details:
With this ability, you may check and see a list of what ails you.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

4.6 EQUILIBRIUM AND BALANCE

       PREV | TEACHING SKILLS TO                                | NEXT
        4.5 | ADVENTURERS                              Queueing | 4.6.1

The majority of abilities use either balance or equilibrium, which represent
physical balance and mental equilibrium.


BALANCE
-------
By physical balance, we mean that after doing certain physical things, like
swinging a sword, you must recover your balance before doing something like
that again.

For example, if you throw a punch at someone, you must recover your balance
before throwing another punch, or before kicking, or swinging a sword.

Some abilities use other forms of balance as well, such as balance for each
specific limb, or balance related to sipping vials, apply salves, or even using
your voice!


EQUILIBRIUM
-----------
Equilibrium applies mostly to mental activities, but is otherwise quite similar
to balance.

If you were to cast a fireball, or use a mental ability, your mind will
temporarily reel from the strain. You must wait to recover before conducting
another such act again.

In most cases, not having balance prevents you from using an ability that
requires equilibrium, and vice versa. There are many exceptions to this rule
which you must discover for yourself.

The time it takes to recover is generally from 2 to 5 seconds, depending on the
ability, and taking into account some racial variations and certain powerful
artefacts. Some very powerful abilities take longer.

In order to know when you have balance and equilibrium, many players find the
command CONFIG PROMPT STATS very helpful. HELP PROMPT will tell you more about
this.

Sometimes, you might lose equilibrium for longer than you should. In this
instance, you should CONCENTRATE to regain your equilibrium. HELP CONCENTRATE
will tell you more about this.


4.6.1 Queueing

       PREV |                                                   | NEXT
        4.6 | EQUILIBRIUM AND BALANCE                    TITLES | 4.7

Adventurers may have differing levels of latency (or lag), which has the
potential to affect the outcome of a battle. To combat this, Achaea has a
server-side queueing system that will automatically attempt to run a command
when you recover balance.


Automatic Queueing
------------------
When using automatic queueing, there are two types of queues, one for physical balance and one for mental equilibrium. 
Items are added to this queue when they're attempted while off their respected balance. For example: You're hunting rats
with your sword, and JAB RAT to attack it. If you attempted to JAB RAT while still off balance from the first attack, 
it'll be added to the queue and will run automatically when you regain balance next.

Queue-related commands:

CONFIG USEQUEUEING <ON|OFF>             - Enable or disable the queueing
                                          functionality.
CONFIG SHOWQUEUEALERTS <ON|OFF>         - Enable or disable the system messages
                                          regarding queueing.


Manual Queueing
---------------
Alternatively, you may manually insert items into your queue. Manually inserted items may use any combination of the 
queue types available below.

Queue-related commands:

CLEARQUEUE <queue>                      - Clear one of your queues.
CLEARQUEUE ALL                          - Clear everything out of your queues.
QUEUE LIST                              - List your current queue.
QUEUE ADD <queue> <command>
                                        - Add an item to the end of one of your
                                          queues.
QUEUE ADDCLEAR <queue> <command>
                                        - Clear the specified queue and add an
                                          item to the fresh queue.
QUEUE ADDCLEARFULL <queue> <command>
                                        - Clear the whole queue and add an item
                                          to the fresh queue.
QUEUE INSERT <queue> <index> <command>
                                        - Add an item to a specific point in one
                                          of your queues.
QUEUE PREPEND <queue> <command>
                                        - Add an item to the start of one of
                                          your queues.
QUEUE REPLACE <queue> <index> <command>
                                        - Replace an item in one of your queues.
QUEUE REMOVE <index>
                                        - Remove an item from a queue.
QUEUE CLEAR <queue>
                                        - Same as CLEARQUEUE


Queue Limits and Specifics
--------------------------
Queued commands are limited to a maximum of ten across ALL QUEUE TYPES. This limit is not per-queue. INSERTing or 
PREPENDing queue commands past your queue limit will remove the last queued command across all queues. ADDCLEAR will 
remove queued commands of the specified queue type, and if there is still not space in the queue, the command will fail.
ADDCLEARFULL will remove all queued commands and then insert the new command at the beginning of your queue.


Simple Queue Types
------------------
Eq          = Equilibrium
Bal         = Balance
Eqbal       = Both eq and balance
Class       = Any of the various class balances
Ship        = Ship command balance
Para        = Not paralysed
Unbound     = Not bound
Stun        = Not stunned
Free        = Eqbal, unbound, not paralyzed, and not stunned
Freestand   = Free, plus standing
Full        = Freestand, plus class balance


Custom Queue Types
------------------
In addition to the simple queue types above, you may use fully custom queue types, mixing and matching the following 
balances and statuses as you see fit.

e = Have equilibrium
b = Have balance
c = Have class balance
s = Have ship balance
p = Have paralysis
w = Are bound
u = Is upright (not prone)
t = Is stunned

To mix and match these queues, you can use any combination of these flags, or their inverse by marking them with an 
exclamation point. For example:

QUEUE ADD c!p!tu <command>
Would execute when you had class balance, were not paralysed, were not stunned, and were standing.

QUEUE ADD eb!w!p!t <command>
Would add something to the FREE queue.

QUEUE ADD s <command>
Would add something to your ship queue.
